In programming, a loop means repeating something multiple times. There are different kinds of loops:

While loops repeat something while a condition is true.
Until loops repeat something while a condition is false.
For loops repeat something for each element of something.



#Diffrence between for loop and while loop?
For loop-


1.In for loop statement is executed then after increment and decrement the values.
2.We used for loop when we already know no. of loop iterations.
3.For loop executes n number of steps in single line.
4.If the condition is not satisfied it execute infinite time.

While Loop-
In python, while loop is used to execute a block of statements repeatedly until a given a condition is satisfied.
And when the condition becomes false, the line immediately after the loop in program is executed.
1.In while loop statement is executed than before or after increment and decrement the values.
2.we use while loop when we don't know no. iterations
3.but in while loop it is not possible.
4.but, in while loop if the condition is not satisfied it will shows compilation error.
5.While loop executes a set of statements as long as the test expression is true.
6.Systex- (test expression):
          #Body of while
          #statements
i = 1
while i<= 5:
    print(i)
    i = i+1
Output
1
2
3
4
5


Do While loop-
1.In do while loop statement is execute atleast once then check the condition of iterations.
2.Syantex- Do[statement}
while (Condition)
3.It is known as exit controlled loop.
3.Even if the condition is not true for the first time the control will enter in a loop.


Nested While Loop-
Python programming language allows to use one loop inside another loop. Following section shows few examples to illustrate the concept.


Declairing a while loop in an existing loop is known as a nested while loop. It will have multiple test expression as well.




Summary
-A loop means repeating something multiple times.
-While loops repeat something as long as a condition is true, and they check the condition only in the beginning.
-For loops can be used for repeating something to each item in a list.
-An iterable is something that can be for looped over.
-The break keyword can be used to interrupt the innermost loop at any time.


-Break Statement: It brings control out of the loop
-Pass Statement: We use pass statement to write empty loops. Pass is also used for empty control statement,
 function and classes.
-Continue Statement: It returns the control to the beginning of the loop.


























